why then
uh our president disappeared and appeared in
Russia well because he was evacuated
anyway he sent to evacuated Well
the special services of Russia I think they evacuated
at his request I'll think about it Maybe the
ambassadors I understood correctly you just
said that the special services of the Russian
Federation evacuated the president
Ukraine to the territory of the Russian
Federation Absolutely
right Good evening Good evening I am from
Ukraine the city of Khmelnitsky And
you I live in two cities Moscow and Donetsk
Cool And where is
more Where do you live more in Moscow or
in
Donetsk probably more in Moscow I already
understood and in the fourteenth year lived  in
Donetsk How old were you before this
year before this year
exactly in the fourteenth year how
old were you 24 24 God Cool finally I
found someone adult Who lived in
Donetsk in the fourteenth year The thing is
that I am writing a book called DPR  lnr
history of formation so I collect facts
eyewitness testimony can you
tell me because I need everything  Ukrainians
say that the war in Donetsk Lugansk
region began on April 12, 14, when
not Hitler I say this Girkin came in,
captured Slavyansk and then began to
capture other cities, so Ukrainians
tell me that before April 12, 14, there
were no military actions in Donetsk and Lugansk regions so  Russians
say that there were, but they say they don't know.
As a person who lived in
Donetsk, can you tell me when the
fighting began in
Donetsk? I don't think I can remember now,
but it seems to me somewhere in early March,
2014, in early March. A  what do you have there, they
did send air bombs into Donetsk, what
happened there in March Well, look I just
served in the Ministry of Emergency Situations And until
1917 I continued to serve there, so I was
the head of the state cooking
ritual chastyny, here in the city of Makeyevka
yeah That
means when they overthrew  Yanukovych, so in
general, we all participated in the anti-Maidan, yes,
and somewhere in March, statements began to come in
from  my comrades Well
one Serve What does it mean
military equipment started to arrive to us here they started to drive in
against the background of protests they started to drive in military
equipment And did you yourself see military equipment
there For example I saw T-planes that
military flew over us
at the end of March That's exactly what I know
I was the one who already participated in these That means
it was the liquidation of the emergency situation that
my unit was already at the end of March
I can answer you 100% about this And what
was where some kind of battle was at the end of
March there was no battle Well look there were no battles
but Well here I am  of course exactly
I
can't tell you the month and the place where I'm talking about the end of
the end of March Here you can If you are at the
computer here if I'm just not at the
computer can you check please then the
Dak area then the first explosions about that the first
explosions in
Dak is the city of Makeyevka the first explosions
on the dacs What is Dacs yes yes yes the first
destruction Well this is
on the dacs if possible interesting Well
come on
ra I wrote the first explosions on the dacs
yes well there is no such thing in Google yes If it is not
difficult no there is no
such thing here in
Google the first explosions on the dacs  there is no
such thing Well, unfortunately I can't confirm it to you now, it
turns out that no one can
confirm any information to me So there
were some military actions, they say a
plane was flying somewhere, they were transporting equipment That's what they
say Yes, but that military actions
were somewhere  in Donetsk region no one
can
confirm Well, unfortunately I
can't document this for you now and how do you look at it, consider
if the plane is flying it's military
action or not
Eh no it's not military action
it's reconnaissance That is, that this is reconnaissance of the
situation yes that is  if you saw that a
plane was flying somewhere, and you have a
border nearby Yes, as I understand it, not far, yes, that
is, if a plane is flying somewhere towards the
border, this does not mean that it is flying to
bomb someone there in Donetsk or
Lugansk, that's true, yes  absolutely right everything
That is possible And can I ask a
question m I just sometimes go to
chat roulette and I'm interested in
your opinion here Khmelnitsky region Well, probably
it's more probably
opinions are expressed towards Western Ukraine
but when was Maidan in
were you for him or against him Here is yours you want to ask me or threw yourself something interesting at the police No no no I don't want to ask that just Yes just your personal opinion exactly about the Maidan exactly about the overthrow of, let's say, Yanukovych towards the Maidan a very positive attitude I was a participant of Maidan to the overthrow of Yanukovych bad attitude Because they did not manage to overthrow him Yes, the overthrow of Yanukovych did not happen I thought that for example there would be an overthrow and that for example they would catch him Yes, it turns out that everything somehow went according to democratic principles He ran away Well, they took him in short appointed an acting person and that's it And what's the problem then can we sort this out with you You say there was no Well here's the first point then Here's my legally I'm not a lawyer I'm a fire open spaces education all the more so then the first point European partners together with Russian then concluded some agreements on what it means to resolve the situation peacefully is correct this is the withdrawal of the police Well, let's agree maybe the withdrawal of the police then means withdrawal from the center of Kyiv then signing the Constitution which was supposed to be on February 22 and  so then
they brought out the police, the protesters
gathered and began to storm the
government quarters, right or am I doing
something wrong, what are you doing wrong,
I guess I'm wrong, I understand,
and then when Yanukovych went to
Kharkov, the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine adopted
a bill on the self-removal of the
President of
Ukraine,
a decree on self-removal
Yes, I don't know  I personally conducted such an
investigation Because it means a lot to me the
decree of the President of Ukraine on the
adoption of, that is, legislative
documents Well, that is, about the fact that
they are being put into effect This decree of the
President was made around the seventh year, still
under Kuchma, that is, and it says that
if the draft law was not published  in the
information bulletin of Ukraine
within 5 days after its adoption, then it
is of an informational
nature, that means these regulatory
documents are of an
informational nature. I understand that they are of an informational nature. Wait,
then do I understand correctly that you
are claiming that what the
Supreme Council adopted, yes, it has no
legal force. Yes, it is  informational
character including and the question
then why Yanukovych has been sitting in Russia all
these
years
because well this is the question because it
means the Ukrainian government did not provide
him with a safe passage  he was the
power How again look let's do it this way
VM year who was the
power before
year Let's who was subordinate to
the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the KGB Well your fact that Yakimenko
KGB is the KGB was because a citizen of
Russia SBU T were directly subordinated
were ministers Kodi
this is the government right means the
government was subordinated to us  there was,
in my opinion, a presidential-parliamentary
head, no, don't look, there was the head of the SBU,
Yakimenko. Yes, it turns out he was subordinate to the
president. Yes, there was the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs,
Zakharchenko, not the Zakharchenko who was a
separatist and then killed, but another Zakharchenko,
he was the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that is, Yanukovych
led the SBU, led the army, led the
police. Yes.
absolutely right Yes yes why did he
run away first Well you probably saw the same
interview that the army refused to carry out
his orders called these orders Lushin
us So she didn't forge dan and what
orders What orders did he give to the army Well
then the army also participated in no the
army didn't take  no Yes, the army was involved
remember that there were internal troops there,
but the internal troops are the Ministry of Internal Affairs, they are the
police, that's what they call them
that's why  The Ministry of Internal Affairs, the
internal troops, are not an army, that's
what they're called, the internal troops, they were later
renamed. Therefore, in order to avoid
confusion, the army did not take any
part at all. Well, look, you said,
Why is the president's security not
ensured, that is, the army said that
we will not forge the best  orders of the
president Well, yes And what orders
What orders exactly I'm just saying you
said You said that the
army does not ensure the president's security the army does not
ensure the president's security
other security of the country including
Yes security army Well ensure and in
some cases the army can also be
used for  protection interest to
protect the interests of the state am I right I
understand correctly that Yanukovych wanted to
give the army some orders it is not clear
which ones you do not know which ones but the army
said that
it will not
carry out criminal orders yes absolutely right And what
orders did he want to give the army Well I
mean that  will ensure his
safety for this he came to
Kharkov and there is here with us you were the Ministry of Emergency Situations
You are the ST you know what was there the
State Security Service so it was
yes or the
Udo department the president's security can only carry out an
assassination attempt on the president by some
Well exceptional  cases that is well
these are Bodyguards this is Okay Let's So
who who who
led the police Zakharchenko Yes Zakharchenko so
he he also dodged with Yanukovych like in
Russia so that is it turns out I
understand correctly that Zakharchenko refused
evacuated Let's So he evacuated
wait again so what is it that is on fire  He
was supposed to ensure
Yanukovych's safety, so he is a policeman,
including him, including him, Yes, too, That is, I
understand correctly that Zakharchenko,
Yanukovych's ally, refused to protect
him and ran away with him,
uh, Well, he evacuated, I'm not saying
who he was from Wait, why did he evacuate?
well because Look, you yourself
said that the chief of police who
should be in charge of the police, he even
evacuated That is, the most important
minister who is in charge of the police and he
could not ensure his security Why why well because what
happened Well because
I look well Why Because
because  some of the leadership were
traitors What Well, well, who were traitors
among us Well, I gave you a specific example
that well, the Minister of Defense said that I
will not I will not be with the people
You, do I
understand correctly  That is and therefore That is if the
Minister of Defense says that he will not
interfere in the Maidan because of this
the chief of police ran away the Minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs or what I
can not
understand I say that all their punishments are
taken away again you were in the structure of the Ministry of Emergency Situations
so  yes yes you in front of the order how is
it who was your main
then chief of the Main Directorate of the
region not And in Ukraine who is above you
what ministry do you belong to at that time
well the Ministry of Emergency Situations was called the Ministry of
Emergency
Situations Who was your main minister
minister Shufrich Oh Shufrich yes look
so Well you weren't a security agency
you were there to put out a fire there to pull someone out
Okay the Ministry of Internal Affairs
wasn't the main task even yes look
here the Ministry of Internal Affairs was Zakharchenko so he has
more police officers in the country than the Ministry of Emergency Situations
True Well yes for me According to the
staff I can't at this point
understand if
he was supposed to
protect Yanukovych there or what and
he ran away with him Why does he have
so many police officers Well what's the problem I
can't understand well because the police stopped
obeying him the police stopped
obeying Well  I think that the police
stopped obeying him, you are the
head of the department and you just
took off and ran away, which means you were afraid for
your own safety, and then they
confirmed it, and then they confirmed it, and then they confirmed it, and then they
confirmed it, and then whoever
refused to provide his safety,
if he is the chief of police, ran away like that  The Ministry of Internal Affairs I
can't understand how this is That is, it
turns out that all the other police in
Ukraine said We will not enforce
it I can't say from a legal point of view of course
but it seems to me that the
police saw what it means to win about
Western forces in this situation Yes, they
stopped  carry out orders from the
top management because already at that
moment they didn't act well then again
look again
wait wait the police carried out
their functions to protect public
order and so
on I think that
it wasn't done like that How it should have been done they just
tell me that  there he was afraid he was afraid
well for example let's say so you were
in the Donetsk region in the Donetsk region
the police
refused
to follow the orders of the bosses of the same
Zakharchenko or
not Well then how can I tell you it was just
on the side of Zakharchenko that's the
main thing why then Zakharchenko and
main thing why then Zakharchenko andYanukovych, for example, did not come to Donetsk to be protected by police officers who are loyal to them. Yes, but they flew off somewhere to Russia at that time. Anti-Maidan. I am not talking about anti-Maidan. You were asked a question. Anti-Maidan was not there then. However, we did not develop it to ensure the security of the president, for example. so they organized it was the trick is not in Anti Maidan look Donetsk region there is a huge number of security forces there for example police SBU and so on and so forth Yes they were subordinated police Zakharchenko SBU Yakimenko all these security agencies What was the problem if for example Yanukovych believed that in Kyiv there he is afraid of Zakharchenko because the local police do not comply with the order to fly to Donetsk and from Donetsk to lead, for example, to issue decrees and so on. Further, for example, now why. Well, I answered you that we could not. At that time, we did not have citizens organized like that. Yes, in order to ensure security and the president and the Ministry citizens all go to work but they do not provide protection to the president Yes but the police in Donetsk region was  a
huge number of
police officers Yes, a huge number of us,
the densest Then at that time, 4 million
lived, this is the densest population That is,
you probably had more police officers
than in any other region, I think yes, yes,
then look, it turns out that for
President Yanukovych, yes, for Minister
Zakharchenko, this was  would be the most protected
area the largest number of
police officers who are loyal to them and
who do not refuse to carry out their
orders why
then did our president disappear and appear in
Russia well because he was evacuated anyway he was
digging Well the Russian special services I
think his ambassadors maybe I
understood correctly you just  they said that
the special services of the Russian Federation
evacuated the president of Ukraine to the
territory of the Russian Federation.
Absolutely right, you said it correctly. And
why? And what did I say incorrectly or what did
I say? It seems to me that this is a
kidnapping and not an
evacuation. You see, kidnapping is
when something is done against his will. And when it is done against
his will.  request This means where was his
as you know how it happened by his
will Not by his
I don't know how it happened But the fact that it
was his interview is correct you
probably also watched it he is where he gave this
interview from he is already he and in Kharkov means in  In
Kharkov he  remember he said not in Kharkov he was still in Kharkov Look when he got to Russia he said in Kharkov If my security is provided by my guarantors I will be grateful there that is who are his guarantors he didn't name this gender then And how can the president of the state have guarantors from some other state well Well I don't know what Wait a minute here we just came to the main question I understand that if it was safe in Donetsk Yes and the Russian special services wanted it so much he said that it was safe So what are you saying because we were there w with you before this we clarified that there was the largest number of police among all the regions of Ukraine Yes and they were all this in our opinion this is in our opinion here in our I think that in Kyiv there were much more it was more it was more Let's do it this way I'll tell you because he wasn't a zain he wasn't a zai because we also had people who came from other regions who paid, for example, through well, dtek workers Yes, those who organized rallies here, who organized riots here when we started to defend our own
regional administration when Well, here's the mustache driving around under the administration We'll just come with you I want to figure it out look in the Donetsk region There was the largest number of police among all other regions maybe except Kyiv as you claim with you just now you confirmed it you so syu Let's huge to at least very large was let's so was there a sufficient number of police in the Donetsk region to ensure the protection of Yanukovych in Donetsk yay Ache well it's safe compared to Rome if we consider that in Kyiv some radicals there moved from Western Ukraine and that's all yes but in Donetsk there was no opinion and there was no Radik there were citizens of Churi finish this topic with Yanukovych I want to understand look it turns out This is how I think if Yanukovych came and sat in Donetsk and ruled the country issued decrees I would understand if there was police there from Kyiv and protesters went to Donetsk to capture him and then he would have fled, it would have been possible to talk somehow Yes, but in Donetsk everything was absolutely calm for him  Well, for some reason it
wasn't calm, I don't agree with you. It
was
calm for Rinat Akhmetov. Well, you saw Rinat
Akhmetov's dacha, and even now it would be
calm. Because I understand correctly that
some businessman, yes, who
doesn't have so much  power resource as a
state it was calm in Donetsk
region and uh Yanukovych would not be
calm yes then look Why
uh he didn't fly to Donetsk Yes he didn't tell
these guys patrons who are helping him there as a
guarantor Yes Take me to
Donetsk This is my homeland I want to
Makeyevka should sit, he is with Makeyevka and not he is
with Yenakiyevo, with Yenakiyevo, with Yenakiyevo. Yes,
I will make myself in Yanaki and will
issue decrees from there, for example, I will file a petition with the
Constitutional Court that they are wrong.
And that's all, but he disappeared and appeared in this
in how is it  in Russia yes yes yes then
if in Crimea it is not the Russian FSB And
ordinary citizens decided to take power
into their own hands yes that's why he didn't come
Well Crimea  - this is a separate topic, let's talk
about he could have come to Crimea and it
was safe for him there, however, he came to
Crimea, he evacuated from Crimea and he is from the
Crimea region, as far as I know, I know about
Crimea, what threatened him in Crimea
I think that there  my worries
were Wait, wait again, that is, I
just understood you correctly that
Yanukovych flew to Russia because it
was dangerous for him in Crimea, it was
dangerous for him everywhere because you know
We know with you That well, okay, I
can't prove it Yes  that the Western special services
are also working, I
understand correctly, they were not there, wait, I
understand correctly that it
was dangerous for Yanukovych to be in Crimea and that
is why he flew to
Russia, it seems to me that it was dangerous for him everywhere,
you know,
from my point of view, I agree with you
that a real president, let's say, yes
countries Here which Well I don't know I have
n't been in his shoes let's say yes I don't know
what he knows He claims that his
safety was threatened for his life
we are all people We fear for our lives and he
didn't want to risk his life so
that's the question  I came up with this very idea  cool
thing, but if, for example, these guarantors
who are there, they would have taken him and
helped him, for example, from Crimea, or Simferopol,
not to Russia, but, for example,
to Sevastopol, to the Black Sea Fleet.
For example, if he had been in
Sevastopol, at least, yes, on the territory
Ukraine but on the basis of the Black Sea Fleet
on a ship for example it would be like that
in general yes Yes it would be dangerous for him or not
I think
that Well let's start with this
look here the army does not obey not the
Ukrainian but the Russian Black Sea you
asked a question Wait you asked  the question
would he have come to the Black Sea Fleet base then,
and the Ukrainian army Yes, it does not
obey him then, and then Well, there would have been
other circumstances that we would
not have known, right, for example, well,
I dont know,
some military ones, well, some military ones,
questions that What kind of  That is, it
turns out, that is, it turns out and in any
Yes, who would any of the Ukrainian military
run to storm the base of the Russian
Chermo I I dont I cant I cant
fantasize about what would happen I just
assume that the country's army does not
obey  to the president because to
refuse If we look at the ratio of
military potential of Ukraine and Russia in
Crimea Yes Russia clearly had a higher
military potential there
navy I I don't know what pon yes that is it
turns out we all understand Yes what if
he was there for example maybe he was
worried that  the war will start with Ukraine and the
Russian didn't want to come you're
not funny now after 9 years you're not funny after 9 years
like what About this what
about maybe he wanted peace Yes maybe he wanted
peace That is, it
turns out that some people
special services of a foreign country are taking away the request  the
president is being taken away our
president let's take
our president now so they take him away to a foreign
country where he gives a press conference and
says that it was about him that they took him away
so I did that Yes I saw that in short it's
cool you know that's where
they take a hostage Yes and he speaks on camera
Well, he really talks to me, like
in a movie, like I love action movies, and
there he sits on camera and
says, they treat me so well, they
feed me, I dont want to go back, like we
once saw a plot like that in a movie, yeah,
yeah  I don't you think that here too
I'm upset I'm upset that the
president just like that Well, like he eliminated himself Yes,
from this situation in Ukraine
began you know what what still surprises me a lot, for
example, did Yanukovych leave
the territory over all these years  Russian
Federation for example to China or Syria
or Venezuela he went I think not
Amu I don't
know Well because he is afraid everywhere Well
now they opened a criminal case against him and I
think he is afraid of extradition to Ukraine
or some special services there Well that's it  -
in Russia the special services are developed Well, also
quite what kind of special services You
look, he blew it up in St. Petersburg He
saw this in St. Petersburg, in the Agnes cafe, they blew it up
What kind of special services all this is a myth your
strong special services a strong army and so
on, that is, well, in general we came to
the conclusion that  it turns out Yanukovych Yes, some
people took him to another country There,
under the supervision of these people, he held a
press conference where he said that
everything was fine with him, like, and I remembered I
remembered I remembered he was behind  border in Belarus and they recently brought him like a year ago they wanted to come here like on Well he flew to Belarus Well he flew to Belarus Because they wanted to put him in Kyiv like when they take Kyiv in 2-3 days I can't tell you why Yes, I understand, I can't. That is, I'm right, I can tell you that I'm really upset that he didn't save the price. Well, really, the integrity of Ukraine has not been saved. I can't understand, look, February 24, 2022, when the defeat of Russia began. What do you think? Zelensky was scared I think yes yes and he is basically a dude who worked as a comedian before that so yes and he didn't run away Yes and Yanukovych is such a Donetsk guy he held Well under him was this whole vertical management and he somehow got scared even in Donetsk or in Crimea Yes, you are right, he was scared and still, maybe, maybe, he was kidnapped after all Sorry, they just called, I hung up Maybe, maybe, he was kidnapped after all
I understand, yes, maybe it was stolen after all, they called and now I can't hear you, you can hear me now, a very interesting conversationalist, really, it's a pity, yes, I'm sorry, no, Listen, good, give me a plus, whoever you liked, Tsei Romov Yes, Romov is very cool, I adore her Let's say it in Russian, so that people from Russia who heard us there or from abroad who still say there is Maidan or Maidan so look we I love when a person from Donetsk and Lugansk region comes across Yes, let's talk about the facts of what happened there and when we ask the right questions it turns out that everything turns out under a completely different sauce Yes, there were no military actions then, yes Well, yes, I just saw the plane flying Yes somewhere because there is a border and Yanukovych ran away to Maidan and why did he why didn't he come to Donetsk Yes Why didn't he stay in Crimea, that is And that's it And these are the questions that simply break down absolutely all this Russian propaganda that he ran away because he was worried about his life Okay from Kyiv  ran away Yes but he would have flown
to Donetsk And that's it Yes he would have flown to Crimea and
that's it If they had put you at the Black Sea Fleet base
and you would have grown grey there for
a week Until that happened, it didn't happen that way
Because Yanukovych was kidnapped by the special services of the
Russian Federation Yes as a hostage
so that they could then voice it on his behalf
some things
and
disorganized here without power we have
this president expelled And so on
Of course he said anything at the press conference
because he already has a
healthy bottle of champagne from the FSB officer at the press conference
that's all that's why it's very cool
conversation yes man you like for the conversation It's
a pity that it hung there we could have talked
some more I really liked it I love here from the
locals not grind write to my Telegram
right now OSN and
popk this is very and very important YouTube is busy
with us through scarg ORV in your ban and very
much  I don't show videos to people sometimes I don't
show information about streams  That's
why we Mali write operational links
right now and while there in
telegram we will find videos that are also interesting and
useful information and we will oblige you to get
regular
operational links
independently and show you the process
YouTube Glory to Ukraine write